[Music]
you're watching Al jazer live from Doha
I'm Mariam namazi these are live
pictures that we're bringing you from
the alaka hospital in central Gaza where
there is H quite a bit of chaos there
we're continuing coverage of what is
happening there of course Israel's
assault on the Strip has continued uh we
have seen attacks in refugee camps Al
Bor maazi andat uh but then we have also
seen uh civilians who have been uh
killed in these attacks and there is
quite a bit of chaos at the alaka
hospital now in Central Gaza uh now
remember that this is one of the few
functioning hospitals in the strip
because gaza's health system has been uh
pretty much decimated by this war it's
actually they've issued a number of
urgent warnings about their inability to
operate about the fact that they might
completely break down uh they need
thousands of liters of fuel to be able
to operate so not only do they have a
shortage of supplies going into the
strip because the land Crossings have
been closed that is suffocating the area
they don't have enough medicines going
in to be able to treat the patients fuel
is also the critical thing and that has
prevented the hospital from functioning
not just from uh dealing with casualties
not just from dealing with you know
dozens in some cases hundreds of of of
wounded Pat patients uh from these
attacks but also in treating patients
who have chronic illnesses patients that
might require kidney treatment or
dialysis and so there has been a sense
of chaos at the alax hospital there uh
where staff medical workers are
struggling to treat patients many of
them we've seen images of patients who
are lying on the floor waiting for hours
to receive treatment um because this
hospital is simply over capacity but it
is three times over capacity they've
said but it is one of the few
functioning facilities left in Gaza as
we see an intensification of attacks in
the Southernmost city of Gaza in Rafa
has also been continuing uh activity air
strikes uh shelling in Northern Gaza but
we one thing we have seen over the past
few days is a sharp rise in the number
of attacks on on refugees camps for
displaced people and we've been focusing
particularly on Al maazi andat let's
speak to hind alri she has been
following developments in Gaza very
closely for us now hind you are in Dar
Al Bala what can you tell us about what
is happening there and the strikes in
central
Gaza okay so I'm currently in alaka
hospital where injuries did not stop
coming inside of the hospital from a
different areas we're talking about
areas
like camp andazi where this area has
been under intense uh bombardment since
the early hours of the morning we're
talking about artillery handing we're
talking about air strikes and we're also
talking about uh live ammunition from uh
the warships uh we saw a couple um of uh
targets surrounding the alaka hospitals
there was a massive air strike for on
one of the houses very close uh to the
Ala hospital where we're are right now
and we're trapped and we can't leave
because it's very dangerous um the
ambulances did not stop transferring um
injuries and not only ambulances we're
talking about people donkey cars cars
anyone trying to help as much as
possible I talked to a lot of injuries
some from comp and they said that they W
woke up on intense ell reselling where
uh the the shells fell on their houses
and they got injured and it was a
miracle how they evacuated and got got
out of their houses because the Israeli
tanks are stationed on alah road it's
still intensifying we can still hear
artillery shelling in the background and
the hospitals are overwhelmed you can't
imagine the people are on the floor
Medics volunteers everyone is trying to
help them um there's no no place for
them they're even trying to put uh more
injuries in in other departments in the
hospital H the doctors are trying their
best to rescue as much people are as
possible but there are a lot of severe
critical injuries right now and everyone
is terrified people are terrified they
think there's another attack on ala
hospitals we're talking about an area
that has been having hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians displaced that
evacuated from Raa the past couple of
weeks and came here because the Israeli
forces told them that the middle area is
a designated safe area people came to
this area fearing air strikes but again
there's no safe place in Gaza and people
are now homeless terrified horrified
fearing another wave of violence and air
strike and they don't know where to hide
or where to
go it is a desperate situation hen and I
can
hear I get a sense of what is happening
there just from the kind of uh sound of
your voice so I hope that you are in a
place where you are uh able to uh report
um obviously as you say there is no safe
place in Gaza because of what is
happening there and also we see on our
screens just there in the Box you can
see pictures of of smoke billowing into
the air this is uh from
Alat I believe we are looking at images
of
Alat this is in the northern part of
Gaza of course we have seen attacks that
have damaged homes that that have
reduced infrastructure residential
buildings civilian infrastructure
residential buildings and hospitals to
Rubble uh we know that uh the war has
displaced most of the territory's
population I mean 85 90% most of the
territor pop ation have been displaced
uh because of of shortages of food clean
water in medicine but of course it
doesn't seem to matter where people go
um they will still face those shortages
and they will face continuing attacks
and so from H just to be absolutely
clear about what is happening right now
and what has been playing out the last
few minutes we have seen residential
buildings in these latest strikes
targeted gunships are bombing the area
near the fishing port and then also
Israeli forces are targeting areas
around alaka Hospital in der Al Bala
which has been coming under massive
amounts of strain in recent days and
weeks is the hospital still able to
function in some
way can you repeat that yes tell me yes
hen tell me I don't know if you are
getting any information about the alaka
hospital Israeli forces have been
targeting areas around the alaka
hospital in darl Bala can you do you
have any information about whether the
building itself has been targeted or
just the area around
it well one of the one there's a house
that was targeted close to alaka
hospital and we're talking about
sidewalks streets T surrounding the
place where where people were displaced
to that area so it's not only targeting
a house near the hospital is targeting
displ Palestinians that thought that the
middle area was safe but also one of the
journalists received a call from the
Israeli Army telling them that they will
Target tents inside Al AA hospital and
that's why everyone's horrified we're
talking about a place alaka hospital is
not only a hospital it's also a refuge
and a shelter for hundreds of thousands
of Palestinians that seek refuge in this
hospital for months right now and now
they got this a warning from one of the
journalists who received a call from the
isra the Army telling them that they
were going to uh Target a couple of
tents in the courtyard of the hospital
we're seeing people running we're seeing
people um looking for a safe place
everyone is left the the hospital to uh
the areas surrounding the hospital and
and and people are literally can't find
any place safe they do not not know
where to go they're searching for a
place uh they're trying to move west but
again there are helicopters there are
quadcopters people are fearing Liv
ammunition they're fearing artillery
selling and it's also not safe for them
to evacuate from outside the hospital
this is the scene right now and no one
can understand anything because when
escalating it started escalating in one
hour all we heard is ambulances and just
insence people crying children crying
mothers looking for their children
that's that's the thing right now and I
want to make it absolutely clear what is
happening right now obviously we can see
some pictures uh from the alaka hospital
and then also uh some other pictures
from Dar Al Bala but what we are talking
about in in recent days and weeks is a
significant escalation a clear surge in
Israeli attacks on areas that have been
classified by the Israelis as safe zones
so in other words we are seeing an
increasing number of attacks in many
parts of Gaza particularly the central
areas B maazi refugee camps um and der
Al Bala and these are areas that have
been classified as safe zones so in
other words the Israelis have said that
if there is an escalation or a rise in
attacks in one part of Gaza if people
move to a different area that they will
be safe but as hinda is explaining there
we are seeing artillery shelling we are
seeing air strikes and we are seeing
live ammunition being fired into areas
where you have thousands in some cases
hundreds of thousands of civilians who
are taking shelter because they've been
displaced from their
homes yes we're talking about more than
1 million Palestinians that evacuated
from Rafa the western parts of Rafa in
the Pascal Pak all of these people were
squeezed into the middle area because
there was no other place for them to go
the hospital was one of the places that
had a lot of Palestinians at displaced
and more displaced Palestinians came
into the hospital we're talking about
the sidewalks we're talking about the
coast about the agricultural areas we're
talking about schools we're talking
about every inch of the middle area
and area was supposed to be safe people
came from all the way from ra came here
they thought this area was going to be
away from the military uh uh Israeli
military incursion the Israeli operation
but here you go it's it you can't
imagine the amount of injuries um every
I saw children women girls ladies uh men
all of these were civilians in
the where the Israeli artillery shelling
targeted their houses when they were
sleeping very early in the morning
talking to the medical crws they said
that they had a lot of challenges and
obstacles to go and to rescue these
people because the Israeli tanks were
everywhere the quad quads were
everywhere live ammunition was
everywhere but the medical crew said
that they were unable to reach people
till this point the amount of explosions
we heard since the morning was massive
every single minute you'd hear a lot of
explosions either from our C shelling
air strikes from the warship from all
the sides from the south from the west
from the north from the East and again
the middle area was supposed to be a
designated area as a safe Zone a safe
place and here Palestinians are
horrified they do not know where to go
and all I see is little children asking
me are they going to Target us where
should we hide there's no place for us
to go and this is true we are all
trapped right now we have place to go No
One Is Safe no place is safe and to be
honest like everyone here is I'm I'm
talking to you right now I'm in the
entrance of the emergency in alaka
hospital uh more injuries are coming and
being transferred into a hallway that is
already overwhelmed with patients with
injuries uh Medics are horrified they're
trying to uh rescue as much people as
possible uh some people have been killed
and and and and and transferred to the
morg of the hospital right away um it's
a very hard day for the people in and in
the middle area and we still do not know
what is currently happening in N where
there has been intensive air strikes and
artillery shelling in that area too yes
it's very important to make to clarify
that we see all corners of the Gaza
Strip all corners of Gaza that are being
attacked right now we have been speaking
about a war that has we've been covered
a war that has been going on for eight
months now uh we have seen a surge in
attacks with a a focus on particular
refugee camps in Gaza bour maazi andat
in recent days and weeks but it seems as
though over the past few days there has
been a clear surge a clear surge in
these attacks where you have civilians
and we're not just talking about
civilian infrastructure residential
buildings because a lot of that
infrastructure has been reduced Rubble
we are speaking about refugee camps for
displaced people and so what we saw um
the beginning the start of this war was
a focus on Northern Gaza and as you
explaining hind many people were told to
flee to the South and so they made their
way from northern Gaza into Central
parts of Gaza heading into Khan Unis in
the South and then even further and then
into the south in in Raa and now uh in
recent weeks we saw the Israelis
escalating uh their operations their
attacks in Rafa they said to root out
Hamas Fighters there and so they were
focusing on Rafa this has also been
accompanied by a closure of the land
Crossings so while you have a war going
on you have people displaced you have
many people wounded no one has access to
any sort of treatment they're unable to
get treatment when they go to the
hospitals the hospitals can't treat them
if they do get to the hospitals because
they don't have the supplies to be able
to to deal with the patients because the
land Crossings are closed and because
there is a Siege of the Gaza Strip and
so with this escalation in activity in
Rafa we then have seen many thousands of
Palestinians move into the central part
of Gaza and that's where we're at now at
the alaka hospital where Israeli forces
have launched Air Raids at the alaka
hospital in Dar Al Bala we know that a
number of people have been killed and
wounded and I'm just looking at some
other reports here yes some of the some
of the scenes that we've been monitoring
uh show that those who have died in this
attack include children who would bring
bought to the alaka hospital and hind
this is one of the few remaining
hospitals that is not just hospital as
you say it is providing refuge and
shelter to many Palestinians so we can
only imagine the kind of the sense of of
Terror they feel when they see the area
around the hospital itself being
targeted by air strikes do we have a
rough idea about the number of people
who might be in the hospital not just in
terms of uh staff and medical workers
but those who would be taking
shelter well we have we have been trying
to talk to the Medics and asking them
about how many people are inside the
hospital they say that they're at least
a like there at least
like they said approximately there's
8,000 people right now inside Al OA
Hospital only injured and not only
patients but also the families of those
injured because they do not have any
place and they're seeking Refuge inside
there we're talking about one of the
only hospitals still functioning and
still having um kidney dialysis
Department ICU department uh still
operate surgeries uh in alaka hospital
and it's they're having a couple of
delegations from Muk from massap and
from other International organizations
to help uh uh give medical treatment to
all of the Palestinians that in severe
medical need and managemental intervene
but there's a very important thing that
for more than a month now since the RAF
Crossing Clos and Israel started its
military operation in R there has been
no medicine uh that that was transferred
to
um Hospital Medics are saying that
they're running on supplies and the
amount of injuries that were received
since the morning is massive we're we're
trying to talk to uh the medical teams
they said that most of um uh the
injuries that that were were transferred
to hospital uh were were were children
were women and we told out this we
witnessed this but another thing but
most of the injuries were were also in
critical injuries where most of their
lower limbs were need utation and the
hospital is over and they could not help
to rescue um these uh injuries we're all
talking about um the hospital is running
out of anesthetic where they're trying
to do they're trying to help all of
these injures without any pain color any
anesthetic
how many people were killed how many uh
people were transferred to the hospital
and they said that they do not even have
count from the huge
amount the number of number of injured
that were transferred to hospital area
since the morning I'm talking to you as
more umces are coming into the hospitals
more civilians are hunting rescue
the injured and I tell you the hospital
is working three times of but
unfortunately there is no medical and
most of the do here thank you so much
I'm sorry to interrupt you I'm so sorry
to interrupt you hind but uh there were
just the the line is not very clear and
it's breaking up a little bit but we got
a sense of what you were saying there
some 8,000 people are inside the Alexa
Hospital
in der Al Bala in central Gaza Israeli
forces have launched Air Raids in the
area around the alak hospital as hind
was explaining to us a number of people
have been killed and wounded but she was
describing a massive influx of patients
who have had to who have arrived at the
hospital as a result of these recent
Israeli strikes and attacks on Gaza and
hind was saying that the patients
include women and children women and
children are among the casualties there
uh this is a hospital that is really one
of the few perhaps even the only
hospital that is actually functioning
inside Gaza but it's not just a hospital
that is there providing medical
treatment the building itself is also a
shelter is also uh housing many
thousands of people because it's not
just the number of people who've been
injured that are being brought in the
the families of those who've been
injured are also taking shelter
displaced people are also taking shelter
inside this hospital because they have
nowhere else to
go uh and so that was hind hind alhi
reporting there from Gaza and we will
get back to her a little bit later on
let's now speak to Imran Khan uh Imran
Khan is reporting to us from Aman and
Jordan have the isra Israeli government
said anything Imran about these
attacks well what we're hearing from the
Israeli Army is a very short state
saying they are going after terrorist
infrastructure in Al nerat refugee camp
but that is a statement that's very
difficult to square with the pictures
that we're seeing of women and children
being rushed to the hospital of what um
the horrific uh reporting that uh hind
was describing there as well our
colleague in Gaza also what we're
hearing is from a trusted Israeli
military reporters these are the people
that the Israeli military trust they
give them information that this is a
operation by air Land and Sea it's a far
bigger operation than we've seen perhaps
in recent weeks uh but the Israeli
military as I say issuing that very
short statement saying they are going
after terrorist infrastructure now
remember just a a week ago they said
that they'd hit terrorist infrastructure
in Rafa but actually some 45 people
civilians were actually killed and that
they call that the Rafa Massacre we
don't know uh how many injured how many
people people are dead arriving at the
alaxa hospital but that number does seem
to be rising uh throughout the day and
then just a few days ago uh we had
another uh attack where Ham where the
Israelis said they targeted key Hamas
leaders well Hamas actually turned
around and said well the the names
you've given out actually aren't Hamas
leaders at all in fact one of them
doesn't even live in Gaza so once again
we we've got this situation where the
Israelis issue a statement saying
they're going after terrorist
infrastructure but the pictures that we
see live on our air suggest uh that it's
civilians once again caught in the
middle yes there um as you say uh Imran
this is something that has been
continuing a sort of cycle where
Israelis maybe don't issue these
statements regularly who were saying
that it's unusual but in this case
they've said that they are
targeting infrastructure in gaza's aat
area and you know Imran we have seen a
clear focus by the Israelis on areas
that they themselves designated safe
zones you know this includes the largest
refugee camp in Gaza but also some of
the the smaller ones bur and maazi but
you know with the displacement crisis in
Gaza now hind was saying a million
people have been displaced probably even
more because you know they've had to
move from place to place multiple times
these refugee camps uh will have swelled
um you know to numbers that are pro you
know very difficult for us for us to
document but they've also been a clear
focus on these
uh refugee camps uh for displaced people
in recent days haven't
there well let's just get one thing
absolutely clear about this I mean we
keep saying this hin just said it there
are no safe places in Gaza however the
Israelis keep talking about safe zones
because that's one of the things that
the Americans have put pressure on them
to do we just rewind back to the very
beginning of this war there were
supposed to be a number of areas that
weren't going to be the Israelis issued
a map uh they divided the areas into
little squares and said if you go to
that square you're going to be safe that
map has gone completely out of the
window now nowhere is safe in Gaza for
any of these refugees Mill a million of
them at least as you just pointed out
there could well be more but this is a
PR exercise for the Israelis and the
Israelis have almost admitted this they
keep saying uh that we have these safe
zones these safe zones are there for the
Palestinians to go to but the can change
uh at the blink of an eye that's not the
exact words that they use but that's
what we're seeing in effect so the idea
of safe zones is very much a public
diplomacy exercise uh from the Israelis
and it comes from American pressure
thank you very much Imran appreciate it
Imran Khan reporting to us from Aman in
Jordan just a reminder that the reason
we are there in Jordan is because the
cabinet of the Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has banned alaz from reporting
inside Israel itself